Daily Practice of Vajrakīla
From the Profound Treasures of Apang Tertön

ah danté she rik lo dralwa
Āḥ! This present awareness, free from conceptual mind,
zap sal namkha ta bu di
Profound and luminous, like the sky,
yidam lha yi ngowo yin
Is the true nature of the yidam deity.
shyal chak lo yi tsen dzinme
There are no attributes, like face or arms, to cling to.
tikle chenpo dorjé ku
The great tiklé is the vajra body—
dre gü mepé shyönnu la
The youthful Vajrakumāra, who does not age or weaken,
tak ten lhündrup tsal khor dzok
But remains forever stable, the display of his retinue perfect and spontaneously present:
nangwa tamché lha yi ku
All that appears is the form of the deity;
dra drak dechen kilaya
All sounds are the kīla of great bliss;
dren tok shye dang dorjé tuk
All thoughts are the mind of vajra wrath.
nang drak rik sum kyilkhor lhé
All appearances, sounds and awareness form the
ku dang shying gi kö pa o
Kāyas and realms of the maṇḍala of the deity.
om benza kili kilaya sarva bighanen bam hung phet dzah hung ah
oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya sarva vighnān baṃ hūṃ phaṭ | jaḥ hūṃ āḥ
Aspiration Prayers and Dedication
From the Kīla Tantra: the Total Purification of Anger
trak tung rik su kye ne kyang
May I be born again and again, in the family of the herukas,
nyam mé dorjé shyönnu tön
With the incomparable Vajrakumāra as my guide,
nyingje den shying lamar gü
My mind endowed with compassion,
kye shying kyewar gyurwar shok
And with deep devotion toward the master!
lak na dorjé purbu dzin
May I be born again and again, to hold the vajra and the kīla,
zapmö chö ni lokpa dang
To study the profound Dharma,
tsünmé shu tra nyam ze chen
And, without any kind of discrimination,
kye shying kyewar gyurwar shok
To partake of the elixir of the queen!
Then:
gewa di yi dak dang semchen kün
Through the merit of this, may I and all sentient beings,
dü lé nam gyalwar che kün shyi shying
Gain victory over the māras, overcome all obstacles
dorjé shyönnu nyangen depé chok
And certainly attain the fruition of enlightenment—
drebu changchup ngepar nye gyur chik
The supreme nirvāṇa of Vajrakumāra!

So, dedicate the merit towards ultimate enlightenment, and seal the practice with profound prayers
of aspiration.

| Rigpa Translations, with many thanks to Lama Chökyi Nyima (Richard Barron).